Another group of songs which are quite often called sea shanties but in fact
they're ballads, they're story songs. Sea shanties were meant to do work.
They got a very close beat for pulling ropes or working a capstan. It's all
from the days when people used to have sailing ships and they didn't have any
engines at all. So you had to either have manpower or wind power.
If you can get a good sea shanty going then it would increase the pulling power
of a crew by about 10 to 15 percent which was not to be sniffed at. It was
worth doing. And also because they would be on board together as a
group for maybe a month, two months, three months or a year sometimes. But that guy
used to go around to South America, Lotte Park, the guy who bought Lotte Park in
town here. It took six months to go there. So if you're together for
six months then it's nice to have a couple of songs you can sing together
and be more sociable. So it was a way of being sociable as well. Usually
they were pretty risque sort of songs. They were sort of making fun of
people or talking about the girls they got and so on. So it makes it makes a
bit an interesting bit of oral history. It's good oral history.
Some are in Welsh like the collection I've got here and some are in English
and some relate to fish goud, some relate to the trade and so on. If you look at
history lots of communities used to have work songs but they've all disappeared.
The sea shanties are probably the last of these work songs.